Variation in baseline ear temperature, taken in the unadjusted mode, has yet to be established in different age groups. Because normal body temperatures show large variations, the same may be expected for increased temperatures in fever. The aims were to study variations in normothermic body temperatures measured with an ear thermometer and to determine differences between actual and perceived body temperature during a febrile episode (referred to as difftemp) in apparently healthy children and adults.Ear temperature was measured once in 2,006 individuals (61.7% females): 683 children aged 2 and 4 years, 492 adolescents aged 10-18 years, 685 adults aged 19-65 years and 146 elderly aged 66-89 years. Difftemp was estimated as the difference between the individual's ear body temperature, measured in the present study, and the respondent's reported temperature when feverish.Mean ear temperature was 36.4 ± 0.6°C overall and in the child and adult groups. In adolescents, it was 36.5 ± 0.5°C, and in elderly, 36.1 ± 0.5°C. Temperature in men was 36.3 ± 0.6°C, and in women, 36.5 ± 0.5°C. Difftemp was 1.1 ± 0.7°C in adolescents, 1.5 ± 0.7°C in children and adults, and 1.6 ± 0.7°C in those >65 years.Ear body temperature is lower than traditionally reported and differs with age and sex. An individual difftemp of 1.0-1.5°C along with malaise might indicate fever.
To evaluate the use of ear endoscopy in the postoperative management of open mastoidectomy cavities, and to test whether ear endoscopy improves inspection and cleaning compared with ear microscopy.Prospective study. Thirty-two ears were divided into two groups: group 1, examination and cleaning of mastoid cavities under endoscopic visualization after microscopic standard ear cleaning; group 2, examination and cleaning of mastoid cavities under microscopic visualization after endoscope-assisted ear cleaning. We assessed the ability of each method to provide exposure and facilitate cleaning, comparing the benefits of microscopy and endoscopy when used sequentially and vice-versa.Endoscopy provided additional benefits for exposure in 61.1% of cases and cleaning in 66.7%. Microscopy provided no additional benefits in terms of exposure in any case, and provided added benefit for cleaning in only 21.4% of cases.For outpatient postoperative care of open mastoidectomy cavities, ear endoscopy provides greater benefit over ear microscopy than vice-versa. In over half of all cases, endoscopy was able to expose areas not visualized under the microscope. Furthermore, in two-thirds of cases, endoscopy enabled removal of material that could not be cleared under microscopy. Ear endoscopy was superior to microscopy in terms of enabling exposure and cleaning of hard-to-reach sites, due to its wider field of vision.Ear endoscopy is a feasible technique for the postoperative management of open mastoidectomy cavities. Ear endoscopy provided superior advantages in terms of exposure and aural cleaning compared with microscopy.
We analyzed the antifungal susceptibility profiles, genotypes, and virulence of clinical Aspergillus terreus isolates from six university hospitals in South Korea. Thirty one isolates of A. terreus, comprising 15 respiratory and 16 ear isolates were assessed. Microsatellite genotyping was performed, and genetic similarity was assessed by calculating the Jaccard index. Virulence was evaluated by Galleria mellonella survival assay. All 31 isolates were susceptible to itraconazole, posaconazole, and voriconazole, while 23 (74.2%) and 6 (19.4%) showed amphotericin B (AMB) minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) of ≤ 1 mg/L and > 4 mg/L, respectively. Notably, respiratory isolates showed significantly higher geometric mean MICs than ear isolates to AMB (2.41 vs. 0.48 mg/L), itraconazole (0.40 vs. 0.19 mg/L), posaconazole (0.16 vs. 0.08 mg/L), and voriconazole (0.76 vs. 0.31 mg/L) (all, P <0.05). Microsatellite genotyping separated the 31 isolates into 27 types, but the dendrogram demonstrated a closer genotypic relatedness among isolates from the same body site (ear or respiratory tract); in particular, the majority of ear isolates clustered together. Individual isolates varied markedly in their ability to kill infected G. mellonella after 72 h, but virulence did not show significant differences according to source (ear or respiratory tract), genotype, or antifungal susceptibility. The current study shows the marked diversity of clinical isolates of A. terreus in terms of antifungal susceptibilities, genotypes and virulence in the G. mellonella model, and ear isolates from Korean hospitals may have lower AMB or triazole MICs than respiratory isolates.
Blast injuries in modern warfare are common, and the ear is often affected as it is an effective pressure transducer. This study aimed to evaluate military blast injuries of the ear.From May 2002 to October 2014, all patients referred to two military hospitals near Paris, France following exposure to massive explosions were analysed.Among the 41 patients (82 ears), 36 of them reported tinnitus, 25 hearing loss, 14 earache and 8 vertigo. It was noted that 44% of the patients had tympanic membrane perforations and that this was bilateral in two-thirds of the cases. The hearing loss in 29% of the cases was pure sensorineural, in 55% it was mixed and in 15% it was a pure conductive hearing loss. There was no correlation between the impact of middle ear lesions and the severity of the inner ear injury. Three patients had a pharyngolaryngeal blast injury detected on the battlefield associated with blast lung injury, but only two of them had tympanic perforations. Nine tympanoplasty procedures were performed, of which 44% succeeded in sealing the perforation.Blast injuries of the ear are characterised by significant functional signs and are not correlated to otoscopic examinations. Sensorineural hearing loss is almost immediately final. When deciding on initial management, the status of the tympanic membrane does not provide any information about the risk of a primary blast injury of the lung; laryngeal nasofibroscopy seems a more relevant screening test.
The preservation of kidney function after kidney donation depends on the kidney reserve - the potential of the remaining kidney to boost their function after loss of the other kidney. In Traditional Chinese Medicine, size and shape of the external ears are examined to evaluate the person's kidney health. We hypothesized that ear size might be a practical yet overlooked marker of kidney reserve. Fifty kidney transplantation donors were participated in this study. The length and width of both ears of all participants were measured during one of the post-donation visits. Pre-donation serum creatinine and post-donation serum creatinine as well as other relevant parameters (age, sex, weight, height, etc.) of the participants were extracted from medical records. The estimated GFR was calculated from serum creatinine, age and sex using the CKD-EPI equation. Ear length negatively associated with %GFR decline after kidney donation. For every 1 cm increase in ear length, it was associated with 5.7% less GFR decline after kidney donation (95% Confidence Interval 0.2 to 11.3, P = 0.04). Ear width, as well as age, sex, body weight, height, body mass index, and pre-donation eGFR did not significantly associate with the GFR decline. Our findings support the notion of Traditional Chinese Medicine that ear morphology may be associated with kidney health and suggest that ear length might be a useful predictor of kidney function decline after kidney donation.
Finite element method was employed in this study to analyze the change in performance of implantable hearing devices due to the consideration of soft tissues' viscoelasticity. An integrated finite element model of human ear including the external ear, middle ear and inner ear was first developed via reverse engineering and analyzed by acoustic-structure-fluid coupling. Viscoelastic properties of soft tissues in the middle ear were taken into consideration in this model. The model-derived dynamic responses including middle ear and cochlea functions showed a better agreement with experimental data at high frequencies above 3000 Hz than the Rayleigh-type damping. On this basis, a coupled finite element model consisting of the human ear and a piezoelectric actuator attached to the long process of incus was further constructed. Based on the electromechanical coupling analysis, equivalent sound pressure and power consumption of the actuator corresponding to viscoelasticity and Rayleigh damping were calculated using this model. The analytical results showed that the implant performance of the actuator evaluated using a finite element model considering viscoelastic properties gives a lower output above about 3 kHz than does Rayleigh damping model. Finite element model considering viscoelastic properties was more accurate to numerically evaluate implantable hearing devices.
We aim to define the frequencies of anomalies of the inner ear, oval window, and round window ipsilateral to isolated non-syndromic unilateral aural atresia.Retrospective case series. We reviewed high resolution computed tomography scans of the temporal bones of 70 children with isolated non-syndromic unilateral congenital aural atresia. Scans were reviewed according to the Jahrsdoerfer criteria and further evaluated for anomalies of the vestibule, semi-circular canals, cochlea, internal auditory canal and vestibulocochlear nerve.Inner ear dysplasia was seen in two of 70 atretic ears: one with a dysmorphic lateral semicircular canal and another with a large vestibule assimilating the lateral semicircular canal. Abnormalities of the oval window and round window ipsilateral to the atresia were identified in 21% (15) and 7% (5), respectively, of the atretic ears. Oval window and round window abnormalities were associated with disproportionately lower Jahrsdoerfer scores compared to aural atresia patients without these abnormalities (P < 0.001 and P = 0.04, respectively).Compared to studies that included syndromic or bilateral atresia cases, we found inner ear and oval window abnormalities less common in children with isolated non-syndromic unilateral aural atresia. However, round window anomalies seem to occur at about the same frequency.
Canine visceral leishmaniasis (CVL) is transmitted through vector, although venereal transmission has been suggested. This study aimed to compare the parasitic loads and inflammatory processes in genital tissues with ear skin from seropositive male dogs. Forty-five seropositive dogs were separated into groups containing symptomatic (n = 23) and asymptomatic (n = 22) animals. The control group (n = 2) healthy animals with seronegative and negative results in direct parasitological test. Samples of ear tip skin, prepuce, glans penis, testis, epididymis, and prostate were collected for evaluation of parasitic load and inflammatory infiltrate. Although ear tip skin was the most intensely parasitized, prepuce and epididymis revealed no difference in parasitism when compared with ear tip skin (P > 0.05). Parasitic loads in testis and prostate were lower than other tissues (P < 0.05). Parasitism in glans penis was high, similar to prepuce and epididymis, but lower than ear tip skin. High parasitism was more frequent in symptomatic dogs than asymptomatic animals. Severe inflammatory processes were more frequent within the symptomatic animals compared with asymptomatic and more predominant in prepuce and epididymis. Ear tip skin and genital tissues presented signs of chronic inflammation. There were weak and moderate positive correlations between parasitic loads and inflammatory processes. Our results demonstrate that, likewise with the ear tip skin, the genital of seropositive dogs can carry a large number of Leishmania infantum amastigotes and this process are more intense in symptomatic animals. These data have important implications for understanding the possibility of venereal transmission of CVL.
The ear is a key facial feature and yet few studies have previously assessed ear aesthetics. This study aimed to assess the anatomical components of the ear that have the greatest impact on the perception of ear aesthetics.Three photographs of a male adult ear (close-up, lateral, posterior) were digitally manipulated such that in each, 1 anatomical element of the ear was either enlarged or reduced. A complete set of 16 photographs including a repeat of the original ear as a control were randomized and entered into an online survey that required respondents to rate the attractiveness of each ear on a scale of 1 (least attractive) to 10 (most attractive). The survey was disseminated using email and social media.A total of 248 responses were received, 155 women and 92 men. Respondents were grouped by demographics of age and occupation. Reducing (R) or enlarging (E) the helix (R, P = 0.0256; E, P = 0.003), concha (R, P = 0.0002; E, P = <0.0001) and lobule (R, P = 0.0006; E, P < 0.0001) had a significant effect on ratings of attractiveness. Altering the tragus had no significant effect (R, P = 0.448; E, P = 0.201). In lateral view, raising the height of the ear had a significant effect (P = <0.0001) but not in lowering the height (P = 0.3038). Increasing and decreasing the projection of the ears both had a significant effect (P < 0.0001).The results of this study have provided useful evidence regarding the anatomical components of the ear that have the greatest effect on ear aesthetics. Furthermore, this study has proven the usefulness of conducting research using viral online surveys.
Early detection and appropriate intervention for children with hearing impairment is important for maximizing functioning and quality of life. The lack of ear and hearing services in low income countries is a significant challenge, however, evidence suggests that even where such services are available, and children are referred to them, uptake is low. The aim of this study was to assess uptake of and barriers to referrals to ear and hearing services for children in Thyolo District, Malawi.This was a mixed methods study. A survey was conducted with 170 caregivers of children who were referred for ear and hearing services during community-based screening camps to assess whether they had attended their referral and reasons for non-attendance. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with 23 caregivers of children who did not take up their referral to explore in-depth the reasons for non-uptake. In addition, 15 stakeholders were interviewed. Thematic analysis of the interview data was conducted and emerging trends were analysed.Referral uptake was very low with only 5 out of 150 (3%) children attending. Seven main interacting themes for non-uptake of referral were identified in the semi-structured interviews: location of the hospital, lack of transport, other indirect costs of seeking care, fear and uncertainty about the referral hospital, procedural problems within the camps, awareness and understanding of hearing loss, and lack of visibility and availability of services.This study has highlighted a range of interacting challenges faced by families in accessing ear and hearing services in this setting. Understanding these context specific barriers to non-uptake of ear and hearing services is important for designing appropriate interventions to increase uptake.
Unilateral hearing loss (UHL) leads to an imbalanced input to the brain and results in cortical reorganization. In listeners with unilateral impairments, while the perceptual deficits associated with the impaired ear are well documented, less is known regarding the auditory processing in the unimpaired, clinically normal ear. It is commonly accepted that perceptual consequences are unlikely to occur in the normal ear for listeners with UHL. This study investigated whether the temporal resolution in the normal-hearing (NH) ear of listeners with long-standing UHL is similar to those in listeners with NH. Temporal resolution was assayed via measuring gap detection thresholds (GDTs) in within- and between-channel paradigms. GDTs were assessed in the normal ear of adults with long-standing, severe-to-profound UHL (N = 13) and age-matched, NH listeners (N = 22) at two presentation levels (30 and 55 dB sensation level). Analysis indicated that within-channel GDTs for listeners with UHL were not significantly different than those for the NH subject group, but the between-channel GDTs for listeners with UHL were poorer (by greater than a factor of 2) than those for the listeners with NH. The hearing thresholds in the normal or impaired ears were not associated with the elevated between-channel GDTs for listeners with UHL. Contrary to the common assumption that auditory processing capabilities are preserved for the normal ear in listeners with UHL, the current study demonstrated that a long-standing unilateral hearing impairment may adversely affect auditory perception--temporal resolution--in the clinically normal ear. From a translational perspective, these findings imply that the temporal processing deficits in the unimpaired ear of listeners with unilateral hearing impairments may contribute to their overall auditory perceptual difficulties.
To identify the rate of hearing loss related to middle ear disease and the frequency of tympanostomy tube (TT) insertion in the contralateral ear of patients with unilateral microtia/aural atresia.Retrospective case series of patients less than 3 years of age with unilateral microtia/aural atresia treated at an urban, tertiary care children's hospital from 2008 to 2013.Clinical and audiologic data were reviewed. Statistical analysis was performed to determine the relative risk of TT insertion in the normal ear.A total of 72 patients were included for analysis. The average age of patients at their initial otolaryngology visit was 3.3 months (range 0.08-1.67 years); 38 (52.8%) patients were males. Aural atresia involved the right ear in 43 (59.7%) cases. Five (6.9%) patients were syndromic. Abnormal audiometric testing of the normal ear was noted in 12 (16.7%), and 14 (19.4%) underwent TT during the first 3 years of life. Twelve children (85.7%) who had a TT placed were nonsyndromic. When compared to published norms for TT placement in the general population (6.8% of children < 3 year of age), a greater proportion of children with unilateral microtia/aural atresia had TT placement in the normal ear (z = 4.26, P < 0.0001).Patients with unilateral microtia/aural atresia have increased rates of hearing loss and middle ear effusion leading to TT in their normal ear at a higher rate versus the general population. This information can help guide more vigilant care and audiologic follow-up in affected children.4. Laryngoscope, 126:1470-1474, 2016.
Advancement of engineered ear in clinical practice is limited by several challenges. The complex, largely unsupported, three-dimensional auricular neocartilage structure is difficult to maintain. Neocartilage formation is challenging in an immunocompetent host due to active inflammatory and immunological responses. The large number of autologous chondrogenic cells required for engineering an adult human-sized ear presents an additional challenge because primary chondrocytes rapidly dedifferentiate during in vitro culture. The objective of this study was to engineer a stable, human ear-shaped cartilage in an immunocompetent animal model using expanded chondrocytes. The impact of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) supplementation on achieving clinically relevant expansion of primary sheep chondrocytes by in vitro culture was determined. Chondrocytes expanded in standard medium were either combined with cryopreserved, primary passage 0 chondrocytes at the time of scaffold seeding or used alone as control. Disk and human ear-shaped scaffolds were made from porous collagen; ear scaffolds had an embedded, supporting titanium wire framework. Autologous chondrocyte-seeded scaffolds were implanted subcutaneously in sheep after 2 weeks of in vitro incubation. The quality of the resulting neocartilage and its stability and retention of the original ear size and shape were evaluated at 6, 12, and 20 weeks postimplantation. Neocartilage produced from chondrocytes that were expanded in the presence of bFGF was superior, and its quality improved with increased implantation time. In addition to characteristic morphological cartilage features, its glycosaminoglycan content was high and marked elastin fiber formation was present. The overall shape of engineered ears was preserved at 20 weeks postimplantation, and the dimensional changes did not exceed 10%. The wire frame within the engineered ear was able to withstand mechanical forces during wound healing and neocartilage maturation and prevented shrinkage and distortion. This is the first demonstration of a stable, ear-shaped elastic cartilage engineered from auricular chondrocytes that underwent clinical-scale expansion in an immunocompetent animal over an extended period of time.
The ear is one of the most complex organs in the human body. Sound is a sequence of pressure waves, which propagates through a compressible media such as air. The pinna concentrates the sound waves into the external auditory meatus. In this canal, the sound is conducted to the tympanic membrane. The tympanic membrane transforms the pressure variations into mechanical displacements, which are then transmitted to the ossicles. The vibration of the stapes footplate creates pressure waves in the fluid inside the cochlea; these pressure waves stimulate the hair cells, generating electrical signals which are sent to the brain through the cochlear nerve, where they are decoded. In this work, a three-dimensional finite element model of the human ear is developed. The model incorporates the tympanic membrane, ossicular bones, part of temporal bone (external auditory meatus and tympanic cavity), middle ear ligaments and tendons, cochlear fluid, skin, ear cartilage, jaw and the air in external auditory meatus and tympanic cavity. Using the finite element method, the magnitude and the phase angle of the umbo and stapes footplate displacement are calculated. Two slightly different models are used: one model takes into consideration the presence of air in the external auditory meatus while the other does not. The middle ear sound transfer function is determined for a stimulus of 60 dB SPL, applied to the outer surface of the air in the external auditory meatus. The obtained results are compared with previously published data in the literature. This study highlights the importance of external auditory meatus in the sound transmission. The pressure gain is calculated for the external auditory meatus.
We consider the problem of Auditory Attention Detection (AAD), where the goal is to detect which speaker a person is attending to, in a multi-speaker environment, based on neural activity. This work aims to analyze the influence of head-related filtering and ear-specific decoding on the performance of an AAD algorithm.We recorded high-density EEG of 16 normal-hearing subjects as they listened to two speech streams while tasked to attend to the speaker in either their left or right ear. The attended ear was switched between trials. The speech stimuli were administered either dichotically, or after filtering using Head-Related Transfer Functions (HRTFs). A spatio-temporal decoder was trained and used to reconstruct the attended stimulus envelope, and the correlations between the reconstructed and the original stimulus envelopes were used to perform AAD, and arrive at a percentage correct score over all trials.We found that the HRTF condition resulted in significantly higher AAD performance than the dichotic condition. However, speech intelligibility, measured under the same set of conditions, was lower for the HRTF filtered stimuli. We also found that decoders trained and tested for a specific attended ear performed better, compared to decoders trained and tested for both left and right attended ear simultaneously. In the context of the decoders supporting hearing prostheses, the former approach is less realistic, and studies in which each subject always had to attend to the same ear may find over-optimistic results.This work shows the importance of using realistic binaural listening conditions and training on a balanced set of experimental conditions to obtain results that are more representative for the true AAD performance in practical applications.
Social housing is recommended where possible for laboratory mice. In order to achieve this, mice must be individually identifiable. Although, various methods are available, permanent identification is often required, such as ear notching. This method is likely to be painful and to date there is limited literature on pain assessment and alleviation for this routine husbandry practice. Here we aimed to determine if the mouse grimace scale (MGS) could be used to assess pain in C57BL/6 mice following routine ear notching. Langford et al. found that very acute noxious stimuli (i.e. < 10 min in duration) did not produce a change in MGS score in comparison to baseline. Here, no significant difference was found between MGS scores at baseline and immediately post ear notching, potentially indicating that the pain associated with ear notching is either too acute to assess using the MGS tool or the practice is not painful. Studies in other species indicate that ear notching is painful, therefore, unless we can confidently conclude that the process of ear notching is not painful, we should err on the side of caution and assume it is painful due to the large number of mice ear-notched and potential welfare consequences. Alternative methods of assessing pain following this routine practice should be used in order to assess both the potential pain in mice, and the effectiveness of analgesics or local anaesthetics to relieve any associated pain.
Malformations of the external and middle ear often go along with an aesthetic and functional handicap. Independent of additional aesthetic procedures, a successful functional hearing restoration leads to a tremendous gain in quality of life for affected patients. The introduction of implantable hearing systems (bone conduction and middle ear devices) offers new therapeutic options in this field. We focus on functional rehabilitation of patients with malformations, either by surgical reconstruction or the use of different implantable hearing devices, depending on the disease itself and the severity of malformation as well as hearing impairment. Patients with an open ear canal and minor malformations are good candidates for surgical hearing restoration of middle ear structures with passive titanium or autologous implants. In cases with complete fibrous or bony atresia of the ear canal, the most promising functional outcome and gain in quality of life can be expected with an active middle ear implant or a bone conduction device combined with a surgical aesthetic rehabilitation in a single or multi-step procedure. Although the surgical procedure for bone conduction devices is straightforward and safe, more sophisticated operations for active middle ear implants (e.g., Vibrant Soundbridge, MED-EL, Innsbruck, Austria) provide an improved speech discrimination in noise and the ability of sound localization compared with bone conduction devices where the stimulation reaches both cochleae.
The objectives of the present study were to compare the cortisol response caused by ear tagging piglets with the distress caused by other known painful husbandry procedures (e.g. castration and tail docking) and to evaluate the effectiveness of analgesia with meloxicam to reduce the cortisol response caused by these procedures. In total, 210 male piglets were randomised to equal numbers (n=30) into one of seven groups: a control group which was only handled (H), an ear tagged group that received no analgesia (ET), an ear tagged group with analgesia (ETM), a castration group with no analgesia (C), a castration group with analgesia (CM), a tail-docked group with no analgesia (TD) and a tail-docked group with analgesia (TDM). The procedures were carried out on day 3 or 4 after farrowing. Five blood samples were taken from each piglet: 30 min before the respective procedure (baseline value), and 30, 60 min, 4 and 7 h after processing, to assess cortisol concentrations. Means as well as the area under the curve (AUC) value were analysed and the effective sizes of the procedures were established. At 7 h after the experimental treatment, cortisol concentrations had returned to base values in all groups. ET evoked a greater cortisol response than H piglets at 30 min (P<0.001) and 60 min (P=0.001). The cortisol response to ET was lower than C at 30 min (P=0.001) but did not differ significantly at the other sample times. The mean cortisol response was similar between ET and TD piglets over all sample times. Taking both intensity and duration of the cortisol response into account (AUC), ET evoked a greater response than TD. Analgesia (ETM) resulted in significantly lower cortisol levels than ET at 30 and 60 min post-procedure. Castration (C) provoked the highest cortisol response of all procedures; a significant analgesic effect (CM) was shown only at 4 h post-procedure. TD resulted in significantly higher cortisol levels than H piglets only at 30 min; analgesia (TDM) significantly reduced the cortisol response at 30 min. We conclude that ear tagging causes a dramatic increase in cortisol levels compared with handling alone in piglets, which suggests that this procedure causes substantial distress. However, further research is needed to confirm these results.
Before visiting a plastic surgeon, some microtia patients may undergo canaloplasty for hearing improvement. In such cases, scarred tissues and the reconstructed external auditory canal in the postauricular area may cause a significant limitation in using the posterior auricular skin flap for ear reconstruction. In this article, we present a new method for auricular reconstruction in microtia patients with previous canaloplasty. By dividing a postauricular skin flap into an upper scalp extended skin flap and a lower mastoid extended skin flap at the level of a reconstructed external auditory canal, the entire anterior surface of the auricular framework can be covered with the two extended postauricular skin flaps. The reconstructed ear shows good color match and texture, with the entire anterior surface of the reconstructed ear being resurfaced with the skin flaps. Clinical question/level of evidence; therapeutic level IV.
To evaluate the characteristics of children with cotton-tip applicator (CTA)-related ear injuries.Data on CTA-related ear injuries among children presenting to US emergency departments (EDs) from 1990 through 2010 were obtained from the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System.Between 1990 and 2010, an estimated 263 338 children aged <18 years were treated for CTA-related ear injuries in US hospital EDs. There was a nonsignificant increase in the annual number of injuries from 1990 through 2001 (78.2%) and a significant decrease from 2001 through 2010 (26.0%). Younger children sustained the highest rate of injury (32.2 per 100 000 for age 0-3 years). Ear cleaning was the most frequently documented circumstance at the time of injury (73.2%), and patients themselves were most commonly handling the CTA (76.9%). Foreign body sensation (39.2%) and bleeding (34.8%) were commonly documented reasons for visiting the ED. The presence of a foreign body (29.7%) and tympanic membrane perforation (25.3%) were common diagnoses.Most CTA-related injuries occurred with children themselves handling CTAs while cleaning their ears. Foreign body and tympanic membrane perforation were the most common associated diagnoses. Despite warnings against the use of CTAs in the ear canal and use of CTAs by children, these injuries continued to occur. Additional injury prevention strategies through further parent/caregiver and child education are warranted.
To investigate brain asymmetry of the temporal auditory evoked potentials (T-complex) in response to monaural stimulation in children compared to adults.Ten children (7 to 9 years) and ten young adults participated in the study. All were right-handed. The auditory stimuli used were tones (1100 Hz, 70 dB SPL, 50 ms duration) delivered monaurally (right, left ear) at four different levels of stimulus onset asynchrony (700-1100-1500-3000 ms). Latency and amplitude of responses were measured at left and right temporal sites according to the ear stimulated.Peaks of the three successive deflections (Na-Ta-Tb) of the T-complex were greater in amplitude and better defined in children than in adults. Amplitude measurements in children indicated that Na culminates on the left hemisphere whatever the ear stimulated whereas Ta and Tb culminate on the right hemisphere but for left ear stimuli only. Peak latency displayed different patterns of asymmetry. Na and Ta displayed shorter latencies for contralateral stimulation. The original finding was that Tb peak latency was the shortest at the left temporal site for right ear stimulation in children. Amplitude increased and/or peak latency decreased with increasing SOA, however no interaction effect was found with recording site or with ear stimulated.Our main original result indicates a right ear-left hemisphere timing advantage for Tb peak in children. The Tb peak would therefore be a good candidate as an electrophysiological marker of ear advantage effects during dichotic stimulation and of functional inter-hemisphere interactions and connectivity in children.
To determine variables which affect cost and profit for major ear surgery and perform a break-even analysis.Retrospective financial analysis.UK teaching hospital.Patients who underwent major ear surgery under general anaesthesia performed by the senior author in main theatre over a 2-year period between dates of 07 September 2010 and 07 September 2012.Income, cost and profit for each major ear patient spell. Variables that affect major ear surgery profitability.Seventy-six patients met inclusion criteria. Wide variation in earnings, with a median net loss of £-1345.50 was observed. Income was relatively uniform across all patient spells; however, theatre time of major ear surgery at a cost of £953.24 per hour varied between patients and was the main determinant of cost and profit for the patient spell. Bivariate linear regression of earnings on theatre time identified 94% of variation in earnings was due to variation in theatre time (r = -0.969; P < 0.0001) and derived a break-even time for major ear surgery of 110.6 min. Theatre time was dependent on complexity of procedure and number of OPCS4 procedures performed, with a significant increase in theatre time when three or more procedures were performed during major ear surgery (P = 0.015).For major ear surgery to either break-even or return a profit, total theatre time should not exceed 110 min and 36 s.
The perception of our environment via sensory organs plays a crucial role in survival and evolution. Hearing, one of our most developed senses, depends on the proper function of the auditory system and plays a key role in social communication, integration, and learning ability. The ear is a composite structure, comprised of the external, middle, and inner ear. During development, the ear is formed from the integration of a number of tissues of different embryonic origin, which initiate in distinct areas of the embryo at different time points. Functional connections between the components of the hearing apparatus have to be established and maintained during development and adulthood to allow proper sound submission from the outer to the middle and inner ear. This highly organized and intimate connectivity depends on intricate spatiotemporal signaling between the various tissues that give rise to the structures of the ear. Any alterations in this chain of events can lead to the loss of integration, which can subsequently lead to conductive hearing loss, in case of outer and middle ear defects or sensorineural hearing loss, if inner ear structures are defective. This chapter aims to review the current knowledge concerning the development of the three ear compartments as well as mechanisms and signaling pathways that have been implicated in the coordination and integration process of the ear.
Somatic cell nucleus transfer (SCNT) has been considered the most effective method for conserving endangered animals and expanding the quantity of adult animal models. Bama miniature pigs are genetically stable and share similar biological features to humans. These pigs have been used to establish animal models for human diseases, and for many other applications. However, there is a paucity of studies on the effect of ear fibroblasts derived from different age of adult Bama miniature pigs on nucleus transfer (NT). The present study examined the NT efficiency of ear fibroblasts from fetal, newborn, 1-, 2-, 4-, 6-, 12-month-old miniature pigs by using trypan blue staining, flow cytometry and NT technique, etc., and the cell biological function and SCNT efficiency were compared between groups. The results showed that ear fibroblasts grew well after passage in each group. Spindle-shaped cells initially predominated, and gradually declined with increase of culture time and replaced by polygonal cells. Irregular cell growth occurred in the 2-month-old group and the elder groups. The growth curves of the ear fibroblasts were "S-shaped" in different age groups. The cell proliferation of postnatal ear fibroblasts, especially those from 2-, 4-, 6-, 12-month-old miniature pigs was significantly different from that of fetus ear fibroblasts (P<0.05 or P<0.01). Two-month- and 4-month-old ear fibroblasts had a significantly higher proportion of G1 stage cells (85% to 91%) than those at 6 and 12 months (66% to 74%, P<0.01). The blastocyst rate of reconstructed embryos originating from newborn, 1-, 2-, 4-month-old donor pigs was 6.06% to 7.69% with no significant difference from that in fetus fibroblast group (8.06%). It was concluded that <4-month-old adult Bama miniature pigs represent a better donor cell resource than elder pigs.
Porcine ear size is an important characteristic for distinguishing among pig breeds. In a previous genome-wide association study of porcine ear size, LEM domain-containing 3 (LEMD3), methionine sulfoxide reductase B3 (MSRB3), high mobility group AT-hook 2 (HMGA2), and Wnt inhibitory factor 1 (WIF1) were implicated as important candidate genes for ear size. This study investigated the expression levels of four candidate genes for ear size in Erhualian and Large White pigs. Ten Erhualian pigs with large ears and eight Large White pigs with small ears at 60 days of age were examined. The mRNA expression levels of the four candidate genes were quantified by real-time polymerase chain reaction. WIF1 mRNA expression was significantly higher in Large White than in Erhualian pigs (P < 0.05), whereas the expression levels of the other three genes were not significantly different between the two breeds. The protein expression levels of the four genes were analyzed using western blot. WIF1 protein expression was significantly higher in Large White than in Erhualian pigs (P < 0.01), whereas MSRB3 protein expression was significantly higher in Erhualian than in Large White pigs (P < 0.05). There were no significant differences between the two breeds in residual protein expression. These results suggest that WIF1 is the main causal gene for ear size in pigs.
To explore the therapeutical effect of ear-acupoint pressing combined with Ear Apex (HX6,7) bloodletting on haemorheology in chloasma patients with Gan (Liver) depression pattern.A total of 180 chloasma patients were randomly assigned to three groups, 60 cases in each. Patients in the earacupuncture (EA) group were treated with ear-acupoint pressing combined with Ear Apex (HX6,7) bloodletting; vitamins C and E were put into practice in the Western medicine (WM) group together with 0.025% tretinoin cream for local external application; patients in the placebo group were treated with urea-cream by external use, while 30 healthy volunteers were in the control group. After a treatment course of 2 months, the changes of haemorheology, injury skin area, colour score and symptom score before and after the treatment were observed.There was no significant difference on whole blood reduced viscosity (high shear, medium shear, and low shear), erythrocyte aggregation index, hematocrit, plasma viscosity among the four groups (F =2.65, P>0.05). Compared with those before treatment, the whole blood viscosity (high shear) and whole blood reduced viscosity (high shear) after treatment in the EA group, the WM group and the placebo group were with no statistical significance (P>0.05). The injury skin area and colour score after treatment were significantly lower than those before treatment in the EA group and the WM group (P<0.05), while there was no significant difference in placebo group (P>0.05). Clinical symptoms of the EA group were obviously improved after the 2-month treatment, which was significantly different compared with those before treatment (P<0.05), there was significant difference compared with those of WM group and placebo group (P<0.05).There was no significant difference on haemorheology index between healthy people and chloasma patients without angionosis, cerebrovascular disease, hematopathy, metabolic disease or any other organic disease. Ear-acupoint pressing combined with Ear Apex (HX6,7) bloodletting can effectively improve concurrent symptoms, lighten chloasma and lower chloasma area in patients accompanied by Gan depression.
Otitis externa and media are frequently diagnosed disorders in rabbits and are particularly common in lop-eared breeds because of the specific anatomy of the ear canal. Medical management for otitis externa and media often provides only a temporary improvement in clinical signs. Surgery by means of partial or total ear canal ablation (PECA or TECA) combined with lateral bulla osteotomy (LBO) represents a feasible approach that is well tolerated and provides a good clinical outcome. Short-term complications associated with PECA/TECA-LBO include facial nerve paralysis and vestibular disease.
The aim of this study was to observe the effect of a titanium tube on external auditory canal reconstruction in congenital aural atresia and to assess the tube's effectiveness in preventing external canal stenosis or atresia after reconstruction. Reconstruction of the external ear canal with a titanium mesh tube was performed in 16 patients (16 ears) with congenital aural atresia at the First People's Hospital of Foshan. The titanium mesh tube was removed 1 year after surgery. The patients were followed up for 2 years (2 ± 0.3 years), and all of the patients had formed a new external ear canal. There was no local infection, granulation tissue, re-stenosis, or atresia in any of the patients after surgery. All of the patients were content with their newly formed external ear canal. Titanium mesh tubing is safe and effective for reconstruction of the external ear canal during surgery for congenital aural atresia.
Sleep assessment is of great importance in the diagnosis and treatment of sleep disorders. In clinical practice this is typically performed based on polysomnography recordings and manual sleep staging by experts. This procedure has the disadvantages that the measurements are cumbersome, may have a negative influence on the sleep, and the clinical assessment is labor intensive. Addressing the latter, there has recently been encouraging progress in the field of automatic sleep staging [1]. Furthermore, a minimally obtrusive method for recording EEG from electrodes in the ear (ear-EEG) has recently been proposed [2]. The objective of this study was to investigate the feasibility of automatic sleep stage classification based on ear-EEG. This paper presents a preliminary study based on recordings from a total of 18 subjects. Sleep scoring was performed by a clinical expert based on frontal, central and occipital region EEG, as well as EOG and EMG. 5 subjects were excluded from the study because of alpha wave contamination. In one subject the standard polysomnography was supplemented by ear-EEG. A single EEG channel sleep stage classifier was implemented using the same features and the same classifier as proposed in [1]. The performance of the single channel sleep classifier based on the scalp recordings showed an 85.7 % agreement with the manual expert scoring through 10-fold inter-subject cross validation, while the performance of the ear-EEG recordings was based on a 10-fold intra-subject cross validation and showed an 82 % agreement with the manual scoring. These results suggest that automatic sleep stage classification based on ear-EEG recordings may provide similar performance as compared to single channel scalp EEG sleep stage classification. Thereby ear-EEG may be a feasible technology for future minimal intrusive sleep stage classification.
The inner ear has long been at the cutting edge of tract tracing techniques that have shaped and reshaped our understanding of the ear's innervation patterns. This review provides a historical framework to understand the importance of these techniques for ear innervation and for development of tracing techniques in general; it is hoped that lessons learned will help to quickly adopt transformative novel techniques and their information and correct past beliefs based on technical limitations. The technical part of the review presents details of our protocol as developed over the last 30 years. We also include arguments as to why these recommendations work best to generate the desired outcome of distinct fiber and cell labeling, and generate reliable data for any investigation. We specifically focus on two tracing techniques, in part developed and/or championed for ear innervation analysis: the low molecular multicolor dextran amine tract tracing technique and the multicolor tract tracing technique with lipophilic dyes.
