Stretching maneuvers for the pectoralis minor muscle, which involve shoulder horizontal abduction or scapular retraction, are performed in clinical and sports settings because the tightness of this muscle may contribute to scapular dyskinesis. The effectiveness of stretching maneuvers for the pectoralis minor muscle is unclear in vivo. The purpose of this study was to verify the effectiveness of stretching maneuvers for the pectoralis minor muscle in vivo using ultrasonic shear wave elastography.Eighteen healthy men participated in this study. Elongation of the pectoralis minor muscle was measured for 3 stretching maneuvers (shoulder flexion, shoulder horizontal abduction, and scapular retraction) at 3 shoulder elevation angles (30°, 90°, and 150°). The shear elastic modulus, used as the index of muscle elongation, was computed using ultrasonic shear wave elastography for the 9 aforementioned stretching maneuver-angle combinations.The shear elastic modulus was highest in horizontal abduction at 150°, followed by horizontal abduction at 90°, horizontal abduction at 30°, scapular retraction at 30°, scapular retraction at 90°, scapular retraction at 150°, flexion at 150°, flexion at 90°, and flexion at 30°. The shear elastic moduli of horizontal abduction at 90° and horizontal abduction at 150° were significantly higher than those of other stretching maneuvers. There was no significant difference between horizontal abduction at 90° and horizontal abduction at 150°.This study determined that shoulder horizontal abduction at an elevation of 90° and horizontal abduction at an elevation of 150° were the most effective stretching maneuvers for the pectoralis minor muscle in vivo.
Shoulder pain can be difficult to treat due to its complex anatomic structure, and different treatment methods can be used. We aimed to examine the efficacy of photobiomodulation therapy (PBMT) and suprascapular nerve (SSN)-pulsed radiofrequency (RF) therapy. In this prospective, randomized, controlled, single-blind study, 59 patients with chronic shoulder pain due to impingement syndrome received PBMT (group H) or SSN-pulsed RF therapy (group P) in addition to exercise therapy for 14 sessions over 2 weeks. Records were taken using visual analog scale (VAS), Shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI), and Nottingham Health Profile (NHP) scoring systems for pretreatment (PRT), posttreatment (PST), and PST follow-up at months 1, 3, and 6. There was no statistically significant difference in initial VAS score, SPADI, and NHP values between group H and group P (p > 0.05). Compared to the values of PRT, PST, and PST at months 1, 3, and 6, VAS, SPADI, and NHP values were statistically significantly lower in both groups (p < 0.001). There was no statistically significant difference at all measurement times in VAS, SPADI, and NHP between the two groups. We established that PBMT and SSN-pulsed RF therapy are effective methods, in addition to exercise therapy, in patients with chronic shoulder pain. PBMT seems to be advantageous compared to SSN-pulsed RF therapy, as it is a noninvasive method.
The objective of this systematic review and meta-analysis is to examine which work-related risk factors are associated with specific soft tissue shoulder disorders. We searched the electronic databases of Medline and Embase for articles published between 2009 and 24 March 2016 and included the references of a systematic review performed for the period before 2009. Primary cross-sectional and longitudinal studies were included when outcome data were described in terms of clinically assessed soft tissue shoulder disorders and at least two levels of work-related exposure were mentioned (exposed vs less or non-exposed). Two authors independently selected studies, extracted data and assessed study quality. For longitudinal studies, we performed meta-analyses and used GRADE (Grades of Recommendations, Assessment, Development and Evaluation) to assess the evidence for the associations between risk factors and the onset of shoulder disorders. Twenty-seven studies met the inclusion criteria. In total, 16 300 patients with specific soft tissue shoulder disorders from a population of 2 413 722 workers from Denmark, Finland, France, Germany and Poland were included in the meta-analysis of one case-control and six prospective cohort studies. This meta-analysis revealed moderate evidence for associations between shoulder disorders and arm-hand elevation (OR=1.9, 95% CI 1.47 to 2.47) and shoulder load (OR=2.0, 95% CI 1.90 to 2.10) and low to very low evidence for hand force exertion (OR=1.5, 95% CI 1.25 to 1.87), hand-arm vibration (OR=1.3, 95% CI 1.01 to 1.77), psychosocial job demands (OR=1.1, 95% CI 1.01 to 1.25) and working together with temporary workers (OR=2.2, 95% CI 1.2 to 4.2). Low-quality evidence for no associations was found for arm repetition, social support, decision latitude, job control and job security. Moderate evidence was found that arm-hand elevation and shoulder load double the risk of specific shoulder disorders. Low to very-low-quality evidence was found for an association between hand force exertion, hand-arm vibration, psychosocial job demands and working together with temporary workers and the incidence of specific shoulder disorders.
This review investigates current protocols using Inertial Measurement Units (IMUs) in shoulder research, and outlines future paths regarding IMU use for shoulder research. Different databases were searched for relevant articles. Criteria for study selection were (1) research in healthy persons or persons with shoulder problems, (2) IMUs applied as assessment tool for the shoulder (in healthy subjects and shoulder patients) or upper limb (in shoulder patients), (3) peer-reviewed, full-text papers in English or Dutch. Studies with less than five participants and without ethical approval were excluded. Data extraction included (1) study design, (2) participant characteristics, (3) type/brand of IMU, (4) tasks included in the assessment protocol, and (5) outcomes. Risk of bias was assessed using the Downs and Black checklist. Scapulothoracic/glenohumeral and humerothoracic kinematics were reported in respectively 10 and 27 of the 37 included papers. Only one paper in healthy persons assessed, next to scapulothoracic/glenohumeral kinematics, other upper limb joints. IMUs' validity and reliability to capture shoulder function was limited. Considering applied protocols, 39% of the protocols was located on the International-Classification-of-Functioning (ICF) function level, while 38% and 23% were on the 'capacity' and 'actual performance'-sublevel, of the ICF-activity level. Most available IMU-research regarding the shoulder is clinically less relevant, given the widely reported humerothoracic kinematics which do not add to clinical-decision-making, and the absence of protocols assessing the complete upper limb chain. Apart from knowledge on methodological pitfalls and opportunities regarding the use of IMUs, this review provides future research paths.
2=0.88) for these subjects, a contradictory result that merits further study.
The utilization of musculoskeletal ultrasound has expanded within the setting of the orthopedic clinic as a cost-effective, point-of-care diagnostic tool for shoulder pathology. In experienced hands, ultrasound exhibits capabilities equivalent to that of magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis of many shoulder diseases including full-thickness and partial-thickness rotator cuff tears. Although similarly effective in identifying additional shoulder disease processes, major obstacles to its widespread use include user dependence and intrinsic limitation to extra-articular diagnosis.The purpose of this review is to present a step-by-step guide of how to perform a comprehensive shoulder examination and to discuss the appropriate use, economic benefit and implementation of ultrasound within the clinic.A systematic search (June 2016) of PubMed, Scopus, and EMBASE databases was conducted according to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines for literature presenting shoulder ultrasound examination protocols. Included studies were peer-reviewed articles or academic society endorsed protocols presenting comprehensive sonographic examinations of the adult shoulder. Papers with limited or single structure examination descriptions, non-English language, and publication dates before 1980 were excluded. Final papers meeting criteria were secondarily screened for publication after 2005 to reflect the current state of ultrasound imaging.The search yielded 1,725 unique articles with 17 studies meeting final selection criteria. Information from identified studies was summarized to formulate a 4-part shoulder examination protocol, including steps most pertinent to orthopedic in-office diagnoses. In agreement with previous studies, the inexperienced orthopedic surgeon can be quickly trained to expert level proficiency in shoulder ultrasound diagnosis. Using an established protocol, a comprehensive, yet effective shoulder ultrasound examination can be performed within ten minutes. Further, ultrasound provides opportunity to off-set costs through the engagement of revenue generating activity for the orthopedic practice.
This study was conducted to identify variables affecting the development of temporary stiff shoulder after operative fixation for distal radial fractures (DRF).The study retrospectively analyzed 167 patients who had undergone internal fixation using volar locking plate for DRF between 2010 and 2013. Group 1 was denoted as the "normal group," and group 2 was denoted as the "stiff shoulder group." Basic demographic factors evaluated included age, sex, bone mineral density (BMD), and the dominancy. Also investigated were radiologic variables, including concurrent fractures of the styloid process, positive ulnar variances, classification of DRF, and morphologic type of the distal radioulnar joint. Finally, the type of plate, methods used for postoperative protection, and time of union were analyzed.Group 1 consisted of 114 patients, and group 2 consisted of 53 patients. On overall univariate analysis, BMD, hand dominancy, and the protective methods after plating were significantly different between the 2 groups. On multivariate analysis, a lower BMD and injury on the nondominant side were significant factors for shoulder stiffness. Stiffness was significantly higher in patients with a mean BMD < -2.6 than in patients with a mean BMD ≥ -2.6. At the final follow-up, all of the 53 patients in group 2 were relieved of the symptoms of a stiff shoulder.A lower BMD and injury on the nondominant distal radius were distinct factors for the development of a stiff shoulder after operative fixation in DRF. Fortunately, nonoperative treatments, such as stretching exercises/injections, were useful for the relief of these symptoms in the short-term follow-up.
People with type 2 diabetes (T2DM) have a high incidence of musculoskeletal disorders thought to be influenced by high non-enzymatic advanced glycated end-products (AGEs). The goals of this study were to determine differences in shoulder activity level and AGEs in people with T2DM compared to matched controls, and to determine factors associated with shoulder pain and disability.Eighty-one participants, T2DM (n=52) and controls (n=29), were examined for magnitude and duration of shoulder activity (measured using accelerometers), skin intrinsic florescence (SIF) as a surrogate measure of AGE level, and the Shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI) as a self-report of shoulder pain and disability.Compared with controls, T2DM participants had 23% less shoulder activity (p=0.01), greater SIF level (3.6±1.7 vs 2.7±0.6AU, p=0.01), less shoulder strength (p<0.05), and the duration of their shoulder activity was moderately associated (r=0.40; p<0.01) with reported shoulder pain and disability. Shoulder pain and disability were not related to SIF level.Persons with T2DM have higher SIF levels and shoulder symptoms and disability indices than controls. Research is needed to determine if a shoulder mobility intervention to increase strength and mobility can help decrease shoulder pain and disability.
Shoulder pain is the most reported area of orthopaedic injury in swimmers. The so-called 'swimmers' shoulder' has been applied to a variety of complaints involving shoulder pain in swimmers without specific reference to contributing mechanisms or structures. Knowledge of dysfunctions associated with swimmers' shoulder can assist clinicians in developing rehabilitation strategies. This literature review aims at providing clinicians insight into the musculoskeletal mechanisms and impairments associated with swimmers' shoulder that could aid them in developing rehabilitation strategies. The following musculoskeletal dysfunctions will be discussed: muscle activity, strength, endurance, muscle control, range of motion, glenohumeral laxity, glenohumeral instability, shoulder posture and scapular dyskinesis. The findings in this review may have implications for swimmers, their coaches, and rehabilitation specialists working with swimmers.
In recent years the popularity of disabled sports and competition among disabled athletes has grown considerably. With this rise in exposure of, and participation in wheelchair sports comes an increase in related stressors, including musculoskeletal load. External mechanical loading may increase the risk of shoulder complaints. The objective of this literature review was to 1) identify and describe the prevalence and/or incidence of shoulder complaints in wheelchair athletes in the literature, to 2) examine the factors and underlying mechanisms that could be potentially involved, and 3) provide some insights into the development of preventative measures.A literature search was conducted using PubMed, Scopus and Embase databases, to identify relevant published articles. All articles in the English language that contained any type of shoulder complaint in relation with a wheelchair sports player, at any level of status (recreational to elite), of any sport, were included. Articles were excluded if they did not include any statistical analysis. Articles that included studies with wheelchair athletes in combination with athletes of other disability sports were excluded in order to be able to differentiate between the two. Narrative, exploratory and case studies were also excluded. Two reviewers independently assessed articles for inclusion. Thirteen articles matched the selection criteria. These were judged on their quality by use of an adapted version of the Webster checklist.Of the included studies the overall quality was low. A relatively high prevalence of complaints was found, ranging from 16% to 76%. Pain was found to be a common complaint in wheelchair athletes. Based on the current literature the cause of shoulder problems is difficult to identify and is likely multifactorial, nevertheless characteristics of the user (i.e. increased years of disability, age and BMI) were shown to increase risk. Preventative measures were indistinct. There may be a role for balanced strength training regimens to decrease risk.Shoulder complaints in wheelchair athletes are a common problem that must be addressed further. Future studies on shoulder overuse injuries of wheelchair athletes should be directed towards biomechanical modeling to develop knowledge of load and its effects.
Patients with a rotator cuff (RC) tear often exhibit scapular dyskinesia with increased scapular lateral rotation and decreased glenohumeral elevation with arm abduction. We hypothesized that in patients with an RC tear, scapular lateral rotation, and thus glenohumeral elevation, will be restored to normal after RC repair.Shoulder kinematics were quantitatively analyzed in 26 patients with an electromagnetic tracking device (Flock of Birds) before and 1 year after RC repair in this observational case series. We focused on humeral range of motion and scapular kinematics during abduction. The asymptomatic contralateral shoulder was used as the control. Changes in scapular kinematics were associated with the gain in range of motion. Shoulder kinematics were analyzed using a linear mixed model.Mean arm abduction and forward flexion improved after surgery by 20° (95% confidence interval [CI], 2.7°-36.5°; P = .025) and 13° (95% CI, 1.2°-36.5°; P = .044), respectively. Kinematic analyses showed decreases in mean scapular protraction (ie, internal rotation) and lateral rotation (ie, upward rotation) during abduction by 3° (95% CI, 0.0°-5.2°; P = .046) and 4° (95% CI, 1.6°-8.4°; P = .042), respectively. Glenohumeral elevation increased by 5° (95% CI, 0.6°-9.7°; P = .028) at 80°. Humeral range of motion increased when scapular lateral rotation decreased and posterior tilt increased.Scapular kinematics normalize after RC repair toward a symmetrical scapular motion pattern as observed in the asymptomatic contralateral shoulder. The observed changes in scapular kinematics are associated with an increased overall range of motion and suggest restored function of shoulder muscles.
There is limited information in the literature that shows whether scapular taping has an effect on the acromiohumeral distance (AHD) and shoulder functions. The aim of this study was to investigate the acute effects of scapular Kinesio Taping® on shoulder internal rotation (IR) and external rotation (ER) strength, IR and ER range of motion (ROM) and AHD in asymptomatic overhead athletes.Forty-one volleyball athletes (24 men, 17 women; mean age: 16.1±1.5 years, body mass: 66.5±9.6 kg, body height: 179.6±8.4 cm, Body Mass Index: 20.5±2.3 kg/m2, time participating in overhead sports activity: 6.2±1.4 h/week, experience in sport: 4.1±2.4 years) were included in this study. Shoulder IR and ER ROM, total rotation ROM, AHD, shoulder isometric IR and ER strength and ER:IR strength ratio of the dominant side were tested before and after taping.Scapular taping increased the shoulder IR (P<0.001) and total ROM (P<0.001), AHD (P<0.001), shoulder IR (P=0.002) and ER (P=0.006) strength. ER ROM and ER:IR ratio did not change after taping (P=0.26, P=0.98, respectively).The results of this study suggest that scapular taping could be an effective method for enhancing the acromiohumeral distance, shoulder rotator strength and range of motion. Therefore, scapular taping could be recommended for not only in the asymptomatic athletes' shoulder exercise training but also in the prevention of subacromial impingement syndrome.
Shoulder instability is a relatively common condition occurring in 2% of the population. PROMIS (Patient-Reported Outcome Measurement Information System) was developed by the National Institutes of Health in an effort to advance patient-reported outcome (PRO) instruments by developing question banks for major health domains.To compare PROMIS instruments to current PRO instruments in patients who would be undergoing operative intervention for recurrent shoulder instability.Cohort study (diagnosis); Level of evidence, 2.A total of 74 patients with a primary diagnosis of shoulder instability who would be undergoing surgery were asked to fill out the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons shoulder assessment form (ASES), Marx shoulder activity scale (Marx), Short Form-36 Health Survey Physical Function subscale (SF-36 PF), Western Ontario Shoulder Instability Index (WOSI), PROMIS physical function computer adaptive test (PF CAT), and PROMIS upper extremity item bank (UE). Correlation between PRO instruments was defined as excellent (>0.7), excellent-good (0.61-0.7), good (0.4-0.6), and poor (0.2-0.3).Utilization of the PROMIS UE demonstrated excellent correlation with the SF-36 PF ( r = 0.78, P < .01) and ASES ( r = 0.71, P < .01); there was excellent-good correlation with the EQ-5D ( r = 0.66, P < .01), WOSI ( r = 0.63, P < .01), and PROMIS PF CAT ( r = 0.63, P < .01). Utilization of the PROMIS PF CAT demonstrated excellent correlation with the SF-36 PF ( r = 0.72, P < .01); there was excellent-good correlation with the ASES ( r = 0.67, P < .01) and PROMIS UE ( r = 0.63, P < .01). When utilizing the PROMIS UE, ceiling effects were present in 28.6% of patients aged 18 to 21 years. Patients, on average, answered 4.6 ± 1.8 questions utilizing the PROMIS PF CAT.The PROMIS UE and PROMIS PF CAT demonstrated good to excellent correlation with common shoulder and upper extremity PRO instruments as well as the SF-36 PF in patients with shoulder instability. In patients aged ≤21 years, there were significant ceiling effects utilizing the PROMIS UE. While the PROMIS PF CAT appears appropriate for use in adults of any age, our findings demonstrate that the PROMIS UE has significant ceiling effects in patients with shoulder instability who are ≤21 years old, and we do not recommend use of the PROMIS UE in this population.
To evaluate the role of preoperative clavicle chest cage angle difference (CCAD) on postoperative radiographic shoulder imbalance, patient's satisfaction and surgeon's fulfillment in Lenke 5 adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS). CCAD, as a novel radiographic parameter, has proven to be a reliable predictor for postoperative shoulder imbalance in Lenke 1 AIS patients. However, the value of CCAD in predicting shoulder balance has never been evaluated in Lenke 5 AIS patients.A total of 42 Lenke 5C AIS patients aged from 10 to 18 years old with a minimum 2-year follow-up were enrolled for evaluation. All patients underwent selective posterior spinal instrumentation and fusion using the all segmental pedicle screw technique by the same surgical team. The fusion levels were determined according to the Lenke criteria. Shoulder height difference (SHD) and CCAD were measured on anteroposterior (AP) standing radiographs. The patients' satisfaction and the surgeons' fulfillment were evaluated using a questionnaire. A receiver operative characteristic curve analysis was performed to explore the threshold values of preoperative CCAD in the prediction of the final follow-up radiographic shoulder imbalance, patients' satisfaction and surgeons' fulfillment.The average preoperative Cobb angle of the main curve was 46.8° ± 4.8°, and the average immediate postoperative Cobb angle was 13.3° ± 2.6°, representing an average surgical correction rate of 75.6% ± 8.5%. The average follow-up time was 29.2 months. At the last follow-up, the value of preoperative CCAD was significantly higher in patients with unbalanced shoulders (SHD ≥ 10 mm). At the final follow-up, 66.7% (28/42) of the patients were satisfied with their appearance, while 33.3% (14/42) of the patients were not satisfied with their appearance. At the final follow-up, 61.9% (26/42) of the surgeons were fulfilled with their operation, while 38.1% (16/42) of the surgeons were not. For patients' satisfaction and surgeons' fulfillment, the preoperative CCAD was significantly greater in patients with unsatisfied outcomes.Clavicle chest cage angle difference could be a reliable predictor for evaluating postoperative shoulder imbalance in AIS patients undergoing selective posterior fusion for Lenke 5C curves. A greater preoperative CCAD was significantly correlated with a postoperative radiographic imbalance of shoulders and dissatisfaction, which will guide spine surgeons in their preoperative planning and in the surgical management of AIS to reduce postoperative shoulder imbalance.
In the literature it has been shown that posterior capsule flexibility is a precursor to shoulder problems. However, no study thus far has shown the influence of the flexibility of posterior capsule in different shoulder pathologies.This study set about to compare the role of posterior capsule tightness in different shoulder problems.One-hundred-twenty-five patients diagnosed with shoulder subacromial impingement syndrome (n= 52), partial rotator cuff tear (n= 31) or frozen shoulder (n= 42) and 30 asymptomatic peers participated in the study. Horizontal adduction was assessed in side-lying position for posterior capsule tightness. Pain was measured via the visual analogue scale and shoulder range of motion and active total elevation was assessed with goniometer. Hand behind the back (HBB) test was assessed the active internal rotation by measuring the distance between T5 and the thumb.It was found that the affected side of the posterior capsules of the patients with subacromial impingement syndrome (p< 0.001), partial rotator cuff tear (p< 0.001) and frozen shoulder (p< 0.001) was stiffer than their healthy side. There were significant differences among groups in the level of tightness in the posterior capsule between the affected and the healthy sides (p< 0.001). All range of motion of the shoulder including HBB test and the posterior capsule tightness of the affected side are found to be correlated (p< 0.05).This study emphasized that the posterior capsule's susceptibility to tightness is most evident in frozen shoulder among different shoulder problems.
2= 0.69, P<.001), but not pain (P = .213). Further examination of the interaction with the Johnson-Neyman technique showed that higher levels of optimism lessened the influence of pain catastrophizing on function. There was no evidence of significant moderation of fear-avoidance beliefs for 3-month shoulder pain (P = .090) or function (P = .092). Conclusion Optimism decreased the negative influence of pain catastrophizing on shoulder function, but not pain intensity. Optimism did not alter the influence of fear-avoidance beliefs on these outcomes. Level of Evidence Prognosis, level 2b. J Orthop Sports Phys Ther 2017;47(1):21-30. Epub 5 Nov 2016. doi:10.2519/jospt.2017.7068.
The aims of our study were to compare the dominant (DOM) and non-dominant (NDOM) shoulders of high-level volleyball athletes and identify possible associations of shoulder adaptations with spike speed (SS) and shoulder pathology. A total of 22 male volleyball players from two teams participating in the first division of the Cypriot championship underwent clinical shoulder tests and simple measurements around their shoulder girdle joints bilaterally. SS was measured with the use of a sports speed radar. Compared with the NDOM side, the DOM scapula was more lateralised, the DOM dorsal capsule demonstrated greater laxity, the DOM dorsal muscles stretching ability was compromised, and the DOM pectoralis muscle was more lengthened. Players with present or past DOM shoulder pain demonstrated greater laxity in their DOM dorsal capsule, tightening of their DOM inferior capsule, and lower SS compared with those without shoulder pain. Dorsal capsule measurements bilaterally were significant predictors of SS. None of the shoulder measurements was associated with team roles or infraspinatus atrophy, while scapular lateralisation was more pronounced with increasing years of experience, and scapular antetilting was greater with increasing age. Adaptations of the DOM shoulder may be linked to pathology and performance. We describe simple shoulder measurements that may have the potential to predict chronic shoulder injury and become part of injury prevention programmes. Detailed biomechanical and large prospective studies are warranted to assess the validity of our findings and reach more definitive conclusions.
Although many advantages of reverse total shoulder arthroplasty (RTSA) have been demonstrated, a variety of complications indicate there is much to learn about how RTSA modifies normal shoulder function. This study used a subject-specific computational model driven by in vivo kinematic data to assess how RTSA affects deltoid muscle moment arms after surgery.A subject-specific 12 degree-of-freedom musculoskeletal model was used to analyze the shoulders of 26 individuals (14 RTSA and 12 normal). The model was modified from the work of Holzbaur to directly input 6 degree-of-freedom humeral and scapular kinematics obtained using fluoroscopy.The moment arms of the anterior, lateral, and posterior aspects of the deltoid were significantly different when RTSA and normal cohorts were compared at different abduction angles. Anterior and lateral deltoid moment arms were significantly larger in the RTSA group at the initial elevation of the arm. The posterior deltoid was significantly larger at maximum elevation. There was large intersubject variability within the RTSA group.Placement of implant components during RTSA can directly affect the geometric relationship between the humerus and scapula and the muscle moment arms in the RTSA shoulder. RTSA shoulders maintain the same anterior and posterior deltoid muscle moment-arm patterns as healthy shoulders but show much greater intersubject variation and larger moment-arm magnitudes. These observations provide a basis for determining optimal implant configuration and surgical placement to maximize RTSA function in a patient-specific manner.
OBJECTIVE Postoperative shoulder imbalance (PSI) is a critical consideration after corrective surgery for a double thoracic curve (Lenke Type 2); however, the radiographic factors related to PSI remain unclear. The purpose of this study was to identify the radiographic factors related to PSI after corrective surgery for adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS) in patients with a double thoracic curve. METHODS This study included 80 patients with Lenke Type 2 AIS who underwent corrective surgery. Patients were grouped according to the presence [PSI(+)] or absence [PSI(-)] of shoulder imbalance at the final follow-up examination (differences of 20, 15, and 10 mm were used). Various radiographic parameters, including the Cobb angle of the proximal and middle thoracic curves (PTC and MTC), radiographic shoulder height (RSH), clavicle angle, T-1 tilt, trunk shift, and proximal and distal wedge angles (PWA and DWA), were assessed before and after surgery and compared between groups. RESULTS Overall, postoperative RSH decreased with time in the PSI(-) group but not in the PSI(+) group. Statistical analyses revealed that the preoperative Risser grade (p = 0.048), postoperative PWA (p = 0.028), and postoperative PTC/MTC ratio (p = 0.011) correlated with PSI. Presence of the adding-on phenomenon was also correlated with PSI, although this result was not statistically significant (p = 0.089). CONCLUSIONS Postoperative shoulder imbalance is common after corrective surgery for Lenke Type 2 AIS and correlates with a higher Risser grade, a larger postoperative PWA, and a higher postoperative PTC/MTC ratio. Presence of the distal adding-on phenomenon is associated with an increased PSI trend, although this result was not statistically significant. However, preoperative factors other than the Risser grade that affect the development of PSI were not identified by the study. Additional studies are required to reveal the risk factors for the development of PSI.
Generalized joint laxity has been proposed as a significant risk factor for failure after arthroscopic anterior shoulder stabilization. The purpose of this study was to prospectively measure joint mobility in patients undergoing arthroscopic anterior shoulder stabilization and to determine whether hypermobility is a risk factor for worse outcomes compared with patients having normal joint mobility.Patients with anterior shoulder instability were prospectively enrolled. Generalized joint hypermobility was measured using the Beighton Hypermobility Score and the Rowe, UCLA, SANE, SST, and WOSI scores were administered and reported as patient outcomes preoperatively and following arthroscopic anterior shoulder stabilization at 6 weeks, 6 months, 12 months, and 24 months postoperatively. Patients were stratified into two groups based on their Beighton Hypermobility Score, with scores ≥ 4/9 indicative of joint hypermobility.Sixteen patients with joint hypermobility (JH) and 18 non-hypermobile patients (NJH) were enrolled. At baseline, there were no significant differences in demographic characteristics or baseline patient-reported outcomes. Significantly more patients in the NJH group had SLAP tears (n = 10) compared to the JH group (n = 2) (p = .013). At all follow-up times, there were no significant differences between the NJH and JH groups with regard to patient-reported outcome scores (p > .05). In the JH group, 17% of patients reported recurrent instability at two years postoperatively compared to 25% of patients in the NJH group. There was no significant difference in failure rate (p = .67).There was no significant difference in patient-reported outcomes or recurrent instability in patients with versus without joint hypermobility undergoing arthroscopic anterior shoulder stabilization.
To examine the course and outcome of deliveries occurring in women who previously experienced shoulder dystocia. In addition, recurrent shoulder dystocia risk factors were assessed.A retrospective cohort analysis comparing all singleton deliveries with and without shoulder dystocia in their preceding delivery was conducted. Independent predictors of recurrent shoulder dystocia were investigated using a multiple logistic regression model.Of the 201,422 deliveries included in the analysis, 307 occurred in women with a previous shoulder dystocia (0.015 %). Women with a history of shoulder dystocia were more likely to be older, experienced higher rates of gestational diabetes mellitus, polyhydramnios, prolonged second stage, operative delivery and macrosomia (>4000 g) in the following delivery. Previous shoulder dystocia was found to be an independent risk factor for recurrent shoulder dystocia (OR = 6.1, 95 % CI 3.2-11.8, p value <0.001) in the multivariable regression analysis.Shoulder dystocia is an independent risk factor for recurrent shoulder dystocia. Deliveries in women with a history of shoulder dystocia are characterized by higher rates of operative delivery, prolonged second stage of labor and macrosomia.
Isolated, full-thickness chondral lesions of the glenohumeral joint are a significant pathology encountered by laborers, athletes, and the elderly. A thorough history should be obtained in any patient presenting to the office with shoulder pain and concern for the etiology being an articular cartilage defect. The first-line imaging should include plain radiographs of the glenohumeral joint; MRI and CT can be ordered as necessary to provide greater detail. Typically, the initial treatment of glenohumeral chondral disease is nonsurgical; however, many surgical treatment options have been refined to provide pain relief, create reparative tissue, or restore the articular surface.
To investigate whether an optimal upper instrumented vertebra (UIV) tilt angle would prevent 'lateral' shoulder imbalance or neck tilt (with 'medial' shoulder imbalance) post-operatively.The mean follow-up for 60 AIS (Lenke 1 and Lenke 2) patients was 49.3 ± 8.4 months. Optimal UIV tilt angle was calculated from the cervical supine side bending radiographs. Lateral shoulder imbalance was graded using the clinical shoulder grading. The clinical neck tilt grading was as follows: Grade 0: no neck tilt, Grade 1: actively correctable neck tilt, Grade 2: neck tilt that cannot be corrected by active contraction and Grade 3: severe neck tilt with trapezial asymmetry >1 cm. T1 tilt, clavicle angle and cervical axis were measured. UIVDiff (difference between post-operative UIV tilt and pre-operative Optimal UIV tilt) and the reserve motion of the UIV were correlated with the outcome measures. Patients were assessed at 6 weeks and at final follow-up with a minimum follow-up duration of 24 months.2 = 0.618). However, UIVDiff had poor correlation with clavicle angle and the lateral shoulder imbalance.An optimal UIV tilt might prevent neck tilt with 'medial' shoulder imbalance due to trapezial prominence and but not 'lateral' shoulder imbalance.
Anterior shoulder dislocation is common. The treatment of recurrence with glenoid bone defect is still considered controversial. A new arthroscopic subscapularis augmentation has recently been described that functions to decrease the anterior translation of the humeral head. The purpose of the presented study was to examine the biomechanical effect on glenohumeral joint motion and stability.Eight fresh frozen cadaver shoulders were studied by use of a force guided industrial robot fitted with a six-component force-moment sensor to which the humerus was attached. The testing protocol includes measurement of glenohumeral translation in the anterior, anterior-inferior and inferior directions at 0°, 30° and 60° of glenohumeral abduction, respectively, with a passive humerus load of 30N in the testing direction. The maximum possible external rotation was measured at each abduction angle applying a moment of 1Nm. Each specimen was measured in a physiologic state, as well as after Bankart lesion with an anterior bone defect of 15-20% of the glenoid, after arthroscopic subscapularis augmentation and after Bankart repair.The arthroscopic subscapularis augmentation decreased the anterior and anterior-inferior translation. The Bankart repair did not restore the mechanical stability compared to the physiologic shoulder group. External rotation was decreased after arthroscopic subscapularis augmentation compared to the physiologic state, however, the limitation of external rotation was decreased at 60° abduction.The arthroscopic subscapularis augmentation investigated herein was observed to restore shoulder stability in an experimental model.
Latissimus dorsi tendon transfer (LDT) is a recent method for surgical treatment of massive, irreparable posterosuperior cuff tears (MIPCT). So far, there are no studies on the quantitative motion analysis of the shoulder and latissimus dorsi (LD) muscle activation after LDT. The changes in shoulder movements after LDT can be objectively assessed by the 3-D motion analysis. These changes may not be due to an increased activity of the LD muscle as external rotator.The shoulder kinematics of nine patients with MIPCT were recorded through a 3-D motion analysis system, before LTD (T0), and after 3 (T1) and 6 (T2) months post-LDT. Maximal shoulder flexion-extension, abduction-adduction, and horizontal abduction-adduction, and the internal and external circumduction of the shoulder joint were measured during upright standing posture. Surface EMG activity of the LD muscle was recorded during both internal rotation (IR) and external rotation (ER) tasks in three different postures.A significant increase of shoulder movements was observed at T2 compared with T0 for almost all motor tasks. A significant effect of LDT was also found on LD-IR/ER ratio in posture 1 at T2 compared with T0 and T1. No significant effects were found for the LD-IR/ER ratio in the other postures.Our study indicates that LDT is effective in shoulder motion recovery. Such improvement is not associated with a change in function of the LD muscle, which may be induced by a depression of the humeral head into the glenoid cavity instead.
Although the belly press and lift off tests are recommended to assess subscapularis function, shoulder internal rotation (IR) exercises performed in other shoulder positions are more commonly used to restore subscapularis function. It is not known if shoulder IR exercises specifically activate subscapularis to the same degree as the lift off and belly press tests, and thus have the potential to effect subscapularis strength gains. Therefore, the aim was to compare subscapularis activation levels with those of other shoulder internal rotator muscles during the belly press and lift off tests and shoulder IR exercise positions.Original research.Twenty asymptomatic volunteers performed maximal isometric contractions during the belly press and lift off tests and shoulder IR performed at 90° and 0° abduction in an upright position and supported at 90° abduction in supine. Muscle activation levels were recorded using a combination of indwelling and surface electrodes. Data were normalized to maximum voluntary contractions and averaged.Moderate average subscapularis activation levels were recorded during all shoulder IR tasks examined with no significant difference between tasks (p=0.18). The belly press test was the only IR task in which subscapularis activation levels were significantly higher than all other shoulder internal rotator muscles (p<0.05).Shoulder IR exercises activate subscapularis to similar moderate levels as the belly press and lift off tests and therefore, have similar potential to strengthen subscapularis. However, the belly press test, with significantly higher subscapularis activation than other shoulder internal rotators, more specifically targets subscapularis.
Effective postoperative pain management after shoulder arthroscopy is a critical component to recovery, rehabilitation, and patient satisfaction.This systematic review provides a comprehensive overview of level 1 and level 2 evidence regarding postoperative pain management for outpatient arthroscopic shoulder surgery.Systematic review.We performed a systematic review of the various modalities reported in the literature for postoperative pain control after outpatient shoulder arthroscopy and analyzed their outcomes. Analgesic regimens reviewed include regional nerve blocks/infusions, subacromial/intra-articular injections or infusions, cryotherapy, and oral medications. Only randomized control trials with level 1 or level 2 evidence that compared 2 or more pain management modalities or placebo were included. We excluded studies without objective measures to quantify postoperative pain within the first postoperative month, subjective pain scale measurements, or narcotic consumption as outcome measures.A combined total of 40 randomized control trials met our inclusion criteria. Of the 40 included studies, 15 examined nerve blocks, 4 studied oral medication regimens, 12 studied subacromial infusion, 8 compared multiple modalities, and 1 evaluated cryotherapy. Interscalene nerve blocks (ISBs) were found to be the most effective method to control postoperative pain after shoulder arthroscopy. Increasing concentrations, continuous infusions, and patient-controlled methods can be effective for more aggressively controlling pain. Dexamethasone, clonidine, intrabursal oxycodone, and magnesium have all been shown to successfully improve the duration and adequacy of ISBs when used as adjuvants. Oral pregabalin and etoricoxib administered preoperatively have evidence supporting decreased postoperative pain and increased patient satisfaction.On the basis of the evidence in this review, we recommend the use of ISBs as the most effective analgesic for outpatient arthroscopic shoulder surgery.
In volleyball, the dominant shoulder of the athlete undergoes biomechanical and morphological adaptations; however, definitive conclusions about their exact nature, aetiology, purpose and associations with shoulder injury have not been reached. We present a systematic review of the existing literature describing biomechanical adaptations in the dominant shoulders of volleyball players and factors that may predispose to shoulder pain/injury. A thorough literature search via Medline, EMBASE and SCOPUS was conducted for original studies of volleyball players and 15 eligible articles were identified. Assessment of study quality was performed using the STROBE statement. The reviewed literature supports the existence of a glenohumeral internal rotation deficit (GIRD) and a possible (and less pronounced) external rotation gain in the dominant vs. the non-dominant shoulder of volleyball athletes. Unlike other overhead sports, the GIRD in volleyball athletes appears to be anatomical as a response to the repetitive overhead movements and not to be associated with shoulder pain/injury. Additionally, the dominant shoulder exhibits muscular imbalance, which appears to be a significant risk factor for shoulder pain. Strengthening of the external rotators should be used alongside shoulder stretching and joint mobilisations, core strengthening and optimisation of spike technique as part of injury management and prevention programmes.
To review our initial experience with percutaneous CT and fluoroscopy-guided screw fixation of pathological shoulder-girdle fractures.Between May 2014 and June 2015, three consecutive oncologic patients (mean age 65 years; range 57-75 years) with symptomatic pathological shoulder-girdle fractures unsuitable for surgery and radiotherapy underwent percutaneous image-guided screw fixation. Fractures occurred through metastases (n = 2) or a post-ablation cavity (n = 1). Mechanical properties of osteosynthesis were adjudged superior to stand-alone cementoplasty in each case. Cannulated screws were placed under combined CT and fluoroscopic guidance with complementary radiofrequency ablation or cementoplasty to optimise local palliation and secure screw fixation, respectively, in two cases. Follow-up was undertaken every few weeks until mortality or most recent appointment.Four pathological fractures were treated in three patients (2 acromion, 1 clavicular, 1 coracoid). Mean size of associated lesion was 2.6 cm (range 1-4.5 cm). Technical success was achieved in all cases (100 %), without complications. Good palliation and restoration of mobility were observed in two cases at 2-3 months; one case could not be followed due to early post-procedural oncologic mortality.Percutaneous image-guided shoulder-girdle osteosynthesis appears technically feasible with good short-term efficacy in this complex patient subset. Further studies are warranted to confirm these promising initial results.
Shoulder dislocation is frequently encountered by orthopedists, and closed manipulation is often sufficient to treat the injury in an acute setting. Although most dislocations are diagnosed and managed promptly, there are rare cases that are missed or neglected, leading to a chronically dislocated state of the joint. They are usually irreducible and cause considerable pain and functional disability in most affected patients, prompting the need to find a surgical method to reverse the worsening conditions caused by the dislocated joint. However, there are cases of even greater rarity in which chronic shoulder dislocations are asymptomatic with minimal functional or structural degeneration in the joint. These patients are usually left untreated, and most show good tolerance to their condition without developing disabling symptoms or significant functional loss over time. We report on one such patient who had a chronic shoulder dislocation for more than 2 years without receiving treatment.
