Diabetes insipidus is an uncommon disorder of water-electrolyte balance characterized by the excretion of abnormally large volumes of diluted urine (polyuria) and increased fluid intake (polydipsia). The disease may result from the insufficient production of vasopressin, its increased degradation, an impaired response of kidneys to vasopressin, or may be secondary to excessive water intake. Patients with severe and uncompensated symptoms may develop marked dehydration, neurologic symptoms and encephalopathy, and therefore diabetes insipidus can be a life-threatening condition if not properly diagnosed and managed. Patients with diabetes insipidus require treatment with desmopressin or drugs increasing sensitivity of the distal nephron to vasopressin, but this treatment may be confusing because of the disorder's variable pathophysiology and side-effects of pharmacotherapy. This review summarizes the current knowledge on different aspects of the pathophysiology, classification, clinical presentation, diagnosis, and management of diabetes insipidus. The reader is also provided with some practical recommendations on dealing with patients suffering from this disease.
Primary mitochondrial diseases refer to a group of heterogeneous and complex genetic disorders affecting 1:5000 people. The true prevalence is anticipated to be even higher because of the complexity of achieving a diagnosis in many patients who present with multisystemic complaints ranging from infancy to adulthood. Diabetes is a prominent feature of several of these disorders which might be overlooked by the endocrinologist. We here review mitochondrial disorders and describe the phenotypic and pathogenetic differences between mitochondrial diabetes mellitus (mDM) and other more common forms of diabetes mellitus.
Risk profiles for stroke recurrence are poorly characterized.We determined the variation in the risk and type of recurrent stroke among index ischemic stroke subtypes, and whether index stroke subtype and conventional stroke risk factors were predictors of stroke recurrence.Patients enrolled in the Prevention Regimen for Effectively Avoiding Second Strokes trial were included in this study.In 1794 patients' recurrent stroke subtypes were the same as the index stroke in: 48路3% of patients with large artery atherothrombosis stroke; 50% of patients with cardioembolic stroke; 48路7% of patients with small artery occlusion stroke; 8路1% of patients with stroke of other etiology, and 45路3% of patients with undetermined etiology stroke. Patients with cardioembolic stroke, who were unwilling or unable to take oral anticoagulants, had the greatest risk of stroke recurrence. Predictors of stroke recurrence in multivariable analysis were: older age and previous stroke among large artery atherothrombosis strokes; older age, male sex, previous stroke, previous transient ischemic attack, hypertension, diabetes, and tobacco use among small artery occlusion strokes; older age among cardioembolic strokes; atrial fibrillation and anti-diabetic medications among other etiology strokes; older age, previous stroke and atrial fibrillation among undetermined etiology strokes. Predictors of brain hemorrhage as recurrent stroke were index small artery occlusion stroke, older age, previous stroke, and antiplatelet treatment with aspirin plus extended-release dipyridamole.Risk predictors for stroke recurrence and for brain hemorrhage differ by index ischemic stroke subtype, information that is important when initiating secondary prevention therapy.
